[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: So
this is a composition pattern, so
this shows how composition works.
So I can have when's attached to
the result of another when and so on.
It's the same thing as when with
this nested call of f and g.
And some of you might be going and
saying, wait a minute,
that looks a lot like the third axiom.
And you're right, this is the third axiom,
because it turns out that
a promise is a monad.
It's a different kind of monad
because the value is not known
at the time the monad is created.
The value will only be known, if it is
ever known, sometime in the future.
And also unlike other monads, a promise
is linked to two resolver functions,
the keep function and the break function.
Whereas other monads
are more singular things.
And also the when function
of the monad is like bind,
except it takes two arguments,
one for success or failure.
Failure is not a consideration
with the ordinary monad, but
otherwise it's a monad, it otherwise
respects all the properties of monads.
So, I'm going to make one, so,
here's the VOW function, so
I've got a lot of code to show you.
It's about a page worth of code,
it's not that much, but
you can't project a page of code,
it's just rude.
So what I'm going to do
is show it in pieces and
hope you can kind of put it together.
>> [COUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: So
we've got a function closure here,
like we've been doing before because
I want to have some shared state.
In particular, the enqueue function and
the enlighten function.
And I don't want those to be global,
I want to hide them inside of this shared
structure, so I'm calling it immediately.
And then, oops, I got that wrong again,
so I've got to fix that,
wrap that up, that's nice, okay, so
let's zoom in on the make function.
>> Douglas Crockford: So
make has some private state.
It's going to have an array of break
functions that are waiting to be called,
an array of keep functions
that are waiting to be called.
Its ultimate fate,
which will be its value some day and
its initial status, is pending.
And we'll have a herald function
that we'll get to in a minute.
And then it returns an object
containing a break function,
a keep function, and the promise object.
Now normally, when I make one of these,
I will take the promise piece and
snap it off and give it to someone else.
So I give you my promise, and at the point
in time where I'm able to keep or
break that promise.
I will then call one of these
methods that I'm reserving,
I could pass those to you as well,
but there's no point.
You wouldn't want to break your own
promise, that doesn't do you any good, and
one of these methods can
only be called once, right?
So once someone has kept the promise,
no one else can keep it.
Any attempt to change the fate
of the promise will fail, it
will fail immediately, that is something
that can throw, so no point in that.
So let's zoom in on the promise, I'm
sorry, well, let's zoom in on the herald.
So the herald is
the function that break and
keep will call to when they know what
the result of the function is going to be.
And they want to tell everybody about it.
So herald will get the state of the monad,
which will now be either.
Which should be pending at this point
because we're about to change it.
If it isn't pending,
then we have to throw an exception,
then we will set the fate to
the new value that we got.
And we've got this queue of
functions that are waiting for
the resolution of this promise.
And we will enlighten the queue and
let all of those functions
know this is the fate.
We will then take the array of
breakers and the array keepers and
set them both to zero.
Because they've,
whichever one doesn't matter anymore,
we just want to forget about them.
So it allows them to
get garbage collected.
And we want to make sure everybody
only gets called once, so
we'll just get rid of both queues.
So now let's zoom in on the promise,
so the promise is an object.
It contains a property is promise just so
that we can recognize that it's a promise.
It's not strictly necessary, but
it can be a good thing to have,
the important thing is the when method.
The when method is the thing someone
will call on the promise when they want
to be informed about what
the result of the promise is.
And it can take a capped function and
a broken function, so
first thing we'll do is make a new vow.
This will be where we get the promise
that when is going to return.
And then,
depending on what the current status is,
we'll either add the new methods
to their respective queues.
Where if the promise
has already been kept,
then we'll add it to the keeper queue and
enlighten that queue immediately.
That'll cause that promise
to get dispatched, so
that means it doesn't matter when,
there's no race between when and keep.
You can call when after
the promises have been kept, and
you can't tell the difference.
It works just the same, so that turns out
to be a really nice temporal property, and
broken does a similar thing.
And then at the end, we'll return
the promise component of the vow and
it's done.
>> Douglas Crockford: Okay, and then this
is a function that does the enqueueing,
and there are a couple of cases
that it has to be concerned about.
Whether it's getting past a value or
getting past another promise or whatever.
And this deals with that and
make sure that the right thing
gets put onto the queue.
Then enlighten is the thing that informs
everybody about what the outcome is,
so it just goes through the queue.
And for
each function that's stored in the queue,
it will call setImmediate to cause that
function to get called with the fate.
setImmediate is a new thing
that was just added to the DOM,
it's not in most of the browsers yet.
It's like setTimeout of 0, except faster.
It turned out that the early browsers
couldn't keep up with setTimeout of 0.
So they added a fudge factor to it,
which makes that time out of
0 actually take a long time.
And there are now applications which say,
wait a minute,
we actually wanted to run immediately.
So, they had put in another thing to do
what setTimeout at 0 should have done.
So, all of the code for
this is on GitHub, if you want
to take a look at it altogether.
This is the full page, I'll give you
a minute to write that down, that's it.
Okay, so Our Friend the Monad,
so who knew?
So you've seen four monads now,
the Identity Monad,
the Ajax Monad, the Maybe Monad,
and the Promise Monad.
And it turns out they're really easy and
kind of simple and
not all that thing that they fussed about,
which is okay with me.
You might want to go reading through
the literature, search for monad burrito,
you'll be surprised at what you see.
And you'll be able to understand it
because you've been through this.
Whereas I can guarantee you no one else
who reads that stuff will make any sense
out of it.
So for further viewing,
I've got more videos for you to watch.
Neither of these has anything
directly to do with monads, but
they're both really interesting.
So I've been talking all
day about the actor model,
Carl Hewitt is the guy
who discovered it at MIT.
Brilliant guy, he's written
a lot about the actor model, but
it's all written at that level.
And there are very few people on the
planet who've been able to make a lot of
sense out of it.
But he did an interview for Channel
9 at Microsoft a few months ago, and
it's a very nice interview and
he clearly explains what this stuff is.
Unfortunately the folks at Channel 9
seemed to like the really long URLs.
So I doubt that there's anybody who
could actually type this one in, but
if you do a search for these words,
you'll probably find it.
Then Mark Miller,
he's a guy who developed the modern
promise based on futures and other things.
And he's been using promises to
not only develop secure systems,
but to develop economic systems.
So he's using the ability to control
object references in a distributed
graph as tokens of value by which
you can create a financial system.
Really, really interesting stuff, and
this is a collection of two
lectures which talk about that.